All right, I'm going to go real fast because we
got a lot to get through.
But I'm Jim.
I run the platform team at Blue Sky.
Platform team is the team that runs our infrastructure, our data
centers, cloud stuff, write a lot of back end code
as well.
And yeah, we have a lot to get through.
So I'm going to go super fast.
But hit me up after if you have any questions or want
to talk more.
Who am I?
I'm Jim.
I live in Boston.
I run the platform team, as I said.
I've been at Blue Sky for about a year.
And I'm here today to share some information with you on
how we do stuff.
Our Atmospheric Systems, our App View, I want
to talk about what's going well, what could be improved
, and maybe give some recommendations, or at least like food
for thought for you as well.
All right, let's get into it.
Who's this for?
So there's a lot of people here who are in the
weeds of AtProto.
A lot of people have different needs and wants out of At
Proto.
And so this is really a talk for people who want to
achieve high scale, such as running a big whole world App
View, such as the Blue Sky App View, right?
Another persona might be running a large fleet of PDSs
.
Euro Sky is coming online.
That's awesome.
Black Sky, like there's so much movement on this,
and it's really cool.
And I want to talk about, well, okay.
So not all projects are in this category.
Totally rad.
It's super awesome.
And yeah, I'll tell you a little bit about what
we do.
This is just like fact dump.
So we're just going to get through it real quick.
PDS fleet.
We run about 110, wow, that's small.
Run about 110 rented bare metal cloud hosts in US East and
US West.
They range from 16 to 64 cores, depending on what year
we spun them up.
They have 256 gigs of RAM.
They have about a gig up, a gig down.
And they have various disk configs.
This is kind of fun and goofy.
I learn about new disk configs every now and then.
Most of them are XFS set up in RAID 1
.
One of them I learned was running ZFS.
That's a little nifty experiment.
It's been live for a long time.
That's cool.
We also run one against our will on Ceph.
So that's kind of cool.
We had an emergency situation where we had to lift and shift
to PDS and all we had was a Ceph
array in our data centers.
That was right after Christmas.
They cost about 600 bucks a month each on OVH
and i3D are the two suppliers that we use there
.
And I'd say, you know, one thing on this
, if you are looking to set up a big fleet of
PDSs, we are way over provisioned on these
things.
So here's a BTOP, and that is not showing
up at all.
But you can see we're using somewhere around like 5%
CPU, 5% of the RAM.
So that's like 12 and a half gigs.
It's doing relatively little network I/O as well,
even though you do kind of want to have at least a
little bit of a beefy setup there.
Most of it actually is like disk storage.
We're kind of coming up on like actually starting to fill
up disks.
And we're going to have to expand and stuff.
And so you can do a lot with the little with the
PDS.
I'll also say we have about half a million users per
host.
I'll say also that was my production PDS.
So like that's dapper link.
There's a half million users running on that box.
There's no special sauce.
We're just running the open source code.
There's nothing behind the scenes.
There's no like rate limit bypass tokens or anything.
It's just the code.
And yeah, we do put a note on that.
We have our own auth server.
But our config looks like this.
We run an HAProxy on each one.
There's 16 PDS containers.
Each one of them has-- sorry, each user has a
SQLite.
And we back those SQLites up with our clone once a
day.
And we do a light stream for live.
We have some Redis, some Datadog for monitoring
, Tailscale for network auth.
It's all fully automated, zero touch provisioning.
So like you just run one Ansible command.
Boom, you got a new one.
It's really fast to stand up new ones.
Second major topic is our pops.
A pop is a point of presence.
And it's basically like a co-location center.
It's a small data center.
We run our own hardware that we own.
We bought it.
We run the relay in our data centers.
We run the app view, primarily powered by Scylla
DB in the data centers.
We run Discover in the data centers.
There's a few other things.
Our search cluster's in there.
Yeah, there's two of them.
One in California, one in Ashburn, Virginia.
And there's about 80 very large servers in each that we
own and operate.
We have super duper fast networks and it's easy to
add more.
Super fast disks and a lot of them.
It's really high bandwidth and we have active active everything.
So there's like two ISPs.
There's two copies of pretty much everything.
Yeah, we want that high degree of redundancy so you
can provide really solid service.
Here's some pictures.
This is the posting factory.
You can see me and Austin.
Austin's over there down on the back.
My friend Patrick's actually behind Austin.
Sorry, Patrick.
But, yeah, this is one of them.
This is what a data center looks like.
So you get a cage that's like your full suite and
in it you put a bunch of racks.
Here's one of the racks.
Within the rack, you have a couple of switches and then
you have a bunch of compute servers.
And then you have two of those, right?
So two of everything.
It's kind of what it looks like.
It's pretty bog standard.
Next is our AWS account.
I'm not going to talk to you too much about AWS
, but it's where we run a bunch of like sing
leton stuff that's, you know, lots of stuff in
there.
Super important.
Some of it's kind of chill.
PLC is like obviously really important.
The main bsky.
app website like the HTML, the CSS, the JavaScript,
the assets are served out of there.
A few other things.
And we have a ton of Postgres in there.
Postgres is really hard to run.
It's really annoying.
RDS is great.
It's very expensive.
What's going well?
Pops are goaded.
Pops are the goat.
They're super duper cheap and they're extremely high performance
.
The PDS fleet is working quite well actually.
It's really easy to add more servers.
So as we're growing, we can just chuck new servers
up.
They're very reasonably priced.
AWS is AWS.
It's fine.
Yeah.
RDS is so good.
It's worth every penny.
Renting GPUs is quite convenient.
We do run a bunch of GPUs up there for various
things.
Besides that, it is very, very expensive.
Do some very rough napkin math and I'm really not
going to get into this too, too much, but it
costs us probably about 800 grand a year to run the P
ops, amortizing for depreciation of the assets over
four years.
The roughly equivalent AWS install is literally impossible because our total switching
capacity in the Pops is just shocking.
It's crazy.
And you couldn't do our Pops setup in AWS,
but if you did, it'd probably be about 10x
that, so about 8 million a year.
And that's with, like, heavily negotiated long-term
reservations.
Probably about 14 million if you were doing on-demand
.
Heavy asterisks.
I vibe-coded all that.
So, yeah, vibe finance.
That being said, the Pops are an absolute shitload
of work.
It requires deep expertise.
Austin has gone, like, absolutely crazy on trying to do
our reprovisioning of all this stuff and make it sane
and make it easy to work with.
It has really slow iteration cycles.
Once you're getting new hardware, it takes a while to
get it online unless you have excellent operational practices.
Again, kudos, Austin.
RAM and storage also is up and to the right, unfortunately
.
And so we bought a bunch of stuff thanks to Jazz,
like, here-ish.
Yeah, about here, so Jazz is the goat.
So what's work?
What's next?
And I'm running out of time, so I'm going
to go fast.
Pops make them easier to operate.
As I said, Austin's been doing yeoman's work
on this.
Increase our compute density as well.
Previously, we basically were assigning one service to a box,
and, like, oftentimes, the service would need less than
1% of one of the CPUs, and each one
of them has, like, 256.
And so I'm going to say the evil Kubernetes word.
So yeah, trying to improve our density there.
We're improving our provisioning, making it faster to get
new stuff online.
We migrated our network architecture from a single switch into a spine
-and-leaf close network topology.
It's really fun.
It's like a network of networks, essentially.
This is what everybody does as well.
A lot of people do this, at least.
Kubernetes for compute density.
The net result is higher engineering velocity, robust, high-
availability systems, and we can actually reclaim a lot
of cloud spend and bring that back to our pops.
We're also going to improve the PDS hosting in some
way.
We're still talking about this, but when you have 110
servers that you rent, those servers are bare metal servers.
They're ours.
They're not virtual.
I literally have, like, IPMI login on all those
things.
They all fail independently, and OVH is not sending
their best.
And so as you add more servers, your mean time between
failure increases, meaning your on-call burden goes up a
lot.
You're at the mercy of your hosting providers.
When a server goes down, we're waiting for, like
, six hours to, like, get notice from OV
H, and it's, like, in the meantime,
it's, like, okay, we can restore to a
different server, or we're just going to eat it,
and so that sucks.
Shared storage also is a big thing that we're talking
about.
SQLite on the server is rough.
PDS is, like, the best case of this,
but I am kind of a SQLite hater, so
I'm just going to leave it at that, and we
will chat.
Yeah.
Boo you.
So I'm thinking about virtual PDS, the shared storage
, whatever that looks like.
I'm just kind of hand-waving.
And then more interesting PDS implementations are coming online.
I'd love to talk about if you have weird PDS
ideas.
Advice or lessons learned.
I'm going to start with the do-nots.
You must have two of everything.
Single points of failures will die, and you will be sad
, and your users will be sad.
Reputation is hard-earned and quickly lost.
Skip the SQLite layer in your app view.
Go with my personal favorite, MySQL or Postgres,
if you don't like good things, and then only move
past it when you're sure you need it.
Start simple, basically.
Don't accept local maximums.
You can do hard stuff.
You can do great things.
That's a do-not.
Now, do's.
First is think really hard about your data access patterns.
We've really optimized the absolute daylights out of the blue
sky data plane.
You want to have this notion of mechanical sympathy.
Be in tune with your hardware and try and optimize the shit
out of it, because you'll pay for it otherwise in
dollars and also your sanity.
Bloom filters are your friend.
Memcache is your friend.
Redis is not your friend.
You should have elastic compute and storage.
Even on-prem, you should use cattle, not pets
.
That kind of comes back to two of everything.
You should have very, very thorough observability.
Be able to answer any question dead about your systems and do
it before you have an outage.
Here's some recs on that.
Finally, one more thing to do is real quick, build
a team that's very strong operationally.
You can't do it alone.
Then come talk to us.
Let's organize.
Brian posted a while ago about what does Nanog of App
Proto look like?
Let's talk about it.
I want to -- I posted a minute ago like L7
BGP.
Let's go talk to each other and figure out the right
way to do this.
There's no silver bullet.
It's really hard work.
That's it.